A) Removing other columns to only display columns of interest:–

Select “Transform data” from “Table tools” ribbon

➢ Press “CTRL” key and select the columns of interest (ProductID, ProductName,
QuantityPerUnit, UnitInStock)
➢ From the “Home” ribbon → Select “Remove Columns” → Click on “Remove Other
Columns”

B) Change the data type of the UnitInStock column:

Select “UnitInStock” column
Select “Whole Number” from the “Data Type” panel which is in “Transform” ribbon

Applying the necessity changes by selecting “Close & Apply” option from “Home”
ribbon.

C) Expand the Order_Details table

#In this step, you expand the Order_Details table that is related to the Orders table,
to combine the other tables

From the “Home” ribbon, select “Transform data” option

From the columns displayed → go to Order_Details → click on the “expand” icon
beside it → select the column of interest (ProductID, UnitPrice, Quantity) → click on
“OK”

All the columns will be displayed

D) Calculate the line total for each Order_Details row

From the “Add column” ribbon, select “Custom Column”.

Change the New column name as “Line Total”.
For formula, select “Order_Details.UnitPrice” from available columns list and click on
“insert”. Insert an “asterisk (*)”. Select “Order_Details.Quantity” from available
columns list and click on “insert”.
Select “OK”

“Line total” column will be displayed.


E) Rename and reorder columns in the query

Drag “Line Total” column towards the left side to reorder the data.

Rename Order_Details columns by removing the prefix – Order_Details from their
heading i.e., changing Order_Details.ProductID to ProductID,
Order_Details.UnitPrice to UnitPrice and Order_Details.Quantity to Quantity.

Applying the necessity changes by selecting “Close & Apply” option from “Home”
ribbon


F) Combine the Products and Total Sales queries

Select “Manage Relationships” from the “Home” ribbon.

As displayed a relationship is created by default between “Orders and Products”.
To create a relation between two data, click on “New”

Select “Products” in from table and “Orders” in to table.
Here, the relationship is already created by default so we cannot create the same
relationship.

From the left panel, select “Model”
Here, you can view the relationship created

When you click on relationship, you can view that “ProductID” is in common to create
this relationship model.